# December Forum – Random Tips and Tricks

## AGENDA
1.	GitHub is good
2.	Pipelines
3.	WIN + V - clipboard history (cross device)
4.	Snapdrop.net (webrtc)
5.	Microsoft ToDo
6.	Windows 11 - Pomodoro Timer
7.	Reader Mode in edge (read to you)
8.	vscode online
9.	.Net 6 - LTS support
10.	Upgrade Assistant
11.	Top Level Programs
12.	File Scoped Namespaces
13.	Implicit Using Statements
14.	Global Using Statements
15.	Minimal Api's - from scratch
16.	Guard Clauses - Ardalis Guard
17.	WSL2 on Windows 11 is awesome
18.	Records type
19.	DateOnly classes
20.	Time Only classes
21.	How to write a chrome/edge extension
22.	Helpers for writing VS2022 extensions - Extension Extensibility Essentials
23.	Demo Okta Session Manager


## GitHub is good
GitHub is getting the love at Microsoft and already has a number of excellent tools for code repositories, including code scanning, linting and more. If you are considering moving from bit bucket to either Azure Repos or GitHub for source control, I suggest giving GitHub a good, long look. Azure DevOps will continue to be the system of choice for running our pipelines for the foreseeable future.

## Azure Pipelines
The stack team has been working to create a standard template for ICS build and integration builds. More will be forthcoming, but some teams are already beta testing these standard templates. These are to help simplify the process of building yaml pipelines in Azure DevOps and providing a consistent baseline to begin with. It includes hooks in to code scanning, etc. These templates are highly extensible so if you need custom steps, it will support you.
## WIN + V - clipboard history (cross device)
Many of you may already know about clipboard history in Windows 10 and 11, but as a reminder or in case you weren’t aware, it exists and can be quite helpful.  For instance, it can be helpful to copy several things at once such as a client_id and a client-secret without having to pop back and forth.
Additionally, you can copy and paste between two machines if you set that up. In Clipboard Settings, you need to enable sync clipboard history.
DEMO – copy and paste from one machine to another machine.

## Snapdrop.net (webrtc)
Sometimes you need to move files between machines such as between a Mac and a PC or an iPhone and a PC. There is a great website called “Snapdrop.net” that provides just such a tool. It is built upon WebRTC standards and is an interesting implementation of the technology.
DEMO – copy from iPhone to PC

*******************  SWITCH TO SCREEN SHARE ON LAPTOP **********************

## Microsoft ToDo
Microsoft ToDo app is a cross platform app that has some really nice features in it. You can download it for Windows, iOS, Android and MacOS.
Here you can manage and sync tasks and create shared ToDo lists with other people. I share a grocery list with my wife.

## Windows 11 - Pomodoro Timer
In Windows 11, there are a number of really great features. One of those is a pomodoro timer. It is pretty basic right now, but it has some nice features. It is located under the CLOCK application.
DEMO – open the CLOCK application. Show the features of the Pomodoro timer.

## Reader Mode in edge (read to you)
We often are tasked with reading a lot of documentation and sometimes it can get mind numbing. To help me read through documents I have been employing the Reader Mode in Edge to assist me.
DEMO - Go to a blog post such as:  Safely store app secrets in ASP.NET core - Mobiletonster's Blog
Have it read a bit to you.

## VS CODE WEB
IF you are even away from your computer but you need to do some work, consider using VS CODE WEB edition:  https://vscode.dev 
DEMO – connect to a github repo and edit a file.  Open MOBILETONSTER/AUTHN REPO
DEMO – install it as an APP in EDGE

## .Net 6 - LTS support
.NET 6 has shipped and is the LTS version for the next couple of years. It is the fastest .NET yet and is continuing to improve and expand its capabilities. ASP.NET Core is the most loved framework according to Stack Overflow.

## UPGRADE ASSISTANT
dotnet tool install -g upgrade-assistant
Find an old project -- Source/Repos/OldWebApp    .net core 3.1
Open terminal at the .sln level and run
upgrade-assistant analyze OldWebApp.sln
when you are ready, run
upgrade-assistant upgrade OldWebApp.sln
Follow the steps

## File Scoped Namespaces
Lets start with file scoped namespaces. How often do we really have more than one namespace per file? Like never, so remove the curly braces. Not needed.

## Implicit Using Statements
With certain project types, you don’t need to have using statements at the top of the file for all the standard expected usings. Make sure you have this:      <ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>

## Top Level Programs
Basically, they removed a lot of the cruft, such as the MAIN method….I can’t quite convert this to have top level program support…but that is basically what they did…Let’s create a new .NET 6 CONSOLE APP and have a look!

## Global Using Statements
If you want to NOT have to put a using statement in every file you can declare it global!
global using System.Net.Http;
often times people will but this in it’s own file, like ‘Global.cs’

## Minimal Api's – from scratch
DEMO let’s build this from scratch so you can see how it is made up. We will take our demo console app and start to convert it to a minimal API web app.
Change the project type to .Web  sdk  <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">
Now add this code to the program.cs file:
```csharp
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
var app = builder.Build();

app.MapGet("/", () =>
{
    return "hello, world";
});


app.Run();
```

### CONFIG SECTION:
Add a appsettings.json file, and then add a key:
```js
“MyKey”:”A big Secret”
```
```csharp
var mykey = app.Configuration.GetSection("MyKey").Value;
```

### SWAGGER SECTION
1.	Next, let's add swagger to dependency injection:
    a.	Between the var builder, and var app, add these lines:

```csharp
// Learn more about configuring Swagger/OpenAPI at https://aka.ms/aspnetcore/swashbuckle
builder.Services.AddEndpointsApiExplorer();
builder.Services.AddSwaggerGen();
```
 
2.	Next let's add it to the middleware pipeline
```csharp
// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseSwagger();
    app.UseSwaggerUI();
}
```

### MIDDLEWARE HTTPS REDIRECTION

3.	You can also include things like Https redirection after the swagger lines:
```csharp
	app.UseHttpsRedirection();
```

### WSL2 on Windows 11 is awesome
Let’s take a short break from coding to talk about WSL2 on Windows 11 plus embedded support in VS2022. Let’s run our same app, but run it on Linux on Windows. We want to make sure it will run in a Linux environment.
DEMO – run on WSL2
Also show how UBUNTU is mounted in Windows Explorer

### WEATHER ENDPOINT

4.	Let's add a weather endpoint.
```csharp
var summaries = new[]
{
    "Freezing", "Bracing", "Chilly", "Cool", "Mild", "Warm", "Balmy", "Hot", "Sweltering", "Scorching"
};
 
app.MapGet("/weatherforecast", () =>
{
    var forecast = Enumerable.Range(1, 5).Select(index =>
       new WeatherForecast
       (
           DateTime.Now.AddDays(index),
           Random.Shared.Next(-20, 55),
           summaries[Random.Shared.Next(summaries.Length)]
       ))
        .ToArray();
    return forecast;
})
.WithName("GetWeatherForecast");
```
 
5.	Need a WeatherForecast Class - 
```csharp
internal class WeatherForecast
{
    public WeatherForecast(DateTime date, int temperatureC, string? summary)
    {
        Date = date;
        TemperatureC = temperatureC;
        Summary = summary;
    }
    public int TemperatureC { get; init; }
    public int TemperatureF => 32 + (int)(TemperatureC /0.5556);
    public string? Summary { get; init; }
    public DateTime Date { get; init; }
}
```
 
## RECORD TYPES
6.	Convert it to a record -
```csharp
internal record WeatherForecast(DateTime Date, int TemperatureC, string? Summary)
{
    public int TemperatureF => 32 + (int)(TemperatureC / 0.5556);
}
```

## NEW ENDPOINT
```csharp
app.MapGet("/pizza/", (string? flavor) =>
{
    return $"Your pizza is ready! {flavor} is the selected flavor!";
});
```

## Guard Clauses - Ardalis Guard
Often time we find ourselves checking parameter into a function to make sure they are valid. These are known as GUARD CLAUSES….
Here is a typical one:
```csharp
if(string.IsNullOrEmpty(flavor)){
    throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(flavor),"flavor must not be null");
}
```

Let’s use Ardalis Guard clauses.
Get nuget package for Ardalis Guard clauses.

```csharp
Guard.Against.NullOrEmpty(flavor, nameof(flavor));
```

Let’s try another one with  `int quantity`
```csharp
    Guard.Against.NegativeOrZero(quantity, nameof(quantity));
```

## DateOnly classes
Have you ever wanted to have a DateOnly class, like when you don’t need a time component, just a day.
## TimeOnly classes
Or have you ever needed only a time component, that didn’t require a date? Now you can have both.
DEMO it somehow in the pizza chooser.

```csharp
DateOnly orderDate = DateOnly.FromDateTime(DateTime.Now);
TimeOnly orderTime = TimeOnly.FromDateTime(DateTime.Now);   

return $"Your pizza flavor is! {flavor} is the selected flavor! and was ordered {orderDate.ToShortDateString()} at {orderTime.ToShortTimeString()}";
```


## How to write a chrome/edge extension
Need a folder for our extension to housed in…make one.

Next we need a `manifest.json` file

```js
{
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "name": "myext",
  "description": "Tony's extension",
  "version": "1.0",
  "content_scripts":[
    {
      "matches":[
        "https://*/*"
      ],
      "js": ["content.js"]
    }
  ],
  "sandbox": {
    "pages": [
      "popup.html"
    ]
  },
  "background":{
    "service_worker":"background.js"
  },
  "action": {
    "default_icon": "icon.png",
    "default_popup": "popup.html"
  },
  "permissions": [
      "activeTab",
      "storage"
    ],
    "host_permissions":["https://ajax.googleapis.com/","http://*/*", "https://*/*" ]
  }
```

Next, we need a `content.js` file
```js
console.log("This is from my extension")
alert(“I’m in your page!”);
```

add a `background.js` file
```js
console.log("this is from the background of myext !")
alert(“background fired”);
```

We need an Icon…it needs to be a PNG…go get one.
Call it icon.png and save it to the folder

And finally, lets have a popup.html page.
```html
<html>
    <body>
        <h1>I got ya!</h1>
		<button>Press Me</button>
    </body>
</html>
```

Open EDGE/CHROME extensions….browse to folder and load the extension.



## Helpers for writing VS2022 extensions - Extensibility Essentials
Make a new project for command type.

## Demo Okta Session Manager
RevoltJS Sites…explain and demo.

